= Dister: an Heroku like solution for SUSE Studio

{SUSE Studio}[http://susestudio.com] is an online Linux image creation tool.
Creating an appliance to run your rails appliacation can be quite annoying:
there are extra repositories to add, gem dependencies to satisfy, a database to 
setup, apache and passenger to configure, overlay files to add and so on.

You can save some time cloning {this}[http://susegallery.com/a/CZ0T0D/rails-in-a-box]
appliance shared on {SUSE Gallery}[http://susegallery.com/], but some efforts
are still required.

Currenlty the easiest solution to deploy a rails application in the cloud is 
{Heroku}[http://heroku.com/].

Dister is a command line tool similar to the one used by Heroku. Within a few 
steps you can create a SUSE Studio appliance running your rails application, 
download it and run into your private or public cloud.

SUSE Studio currenlty supports the following appliance formats:
- oem: it can be run inside KVM or it can be installed to a hard disk/usb pen.
- iso and preload iso: you can create a live dvd or an installation dvd.:
- vmx and ovf: use these formats if you want to run your appliance inside of
  VMware, VirtualBox or KVM.
- XEN guest: use this format if you want to run your appliance using Xen
  hypervisor.
- ec2: jumping into Amazon's cloud has never been so easy.

More formats are coming. Checkout {SUSE Studio}[http://susestudio.com] for 
more details.

== Common workflow

This section will show the common workflow required to create a SUSE Studio 
appliance running a standard Rails application.

All the following commands must be executed inside of the root directory of
your rails application.

=== Create
You can create your SUSE Studio appliance using the following command:
    dister create APPLIANCE_NAME
The following code creates a 32bit appliance based on the latest version of
openSUSE supported by SUSE Studio. The appliance will use the 
{JeOS}[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Just_enough_operating_system] template.

You can change the default behaviour using the following command line options:
- <tt>--basesystem</tt>: to use something different from openSUSE.
- <tt>--template</tt>: to use something different from the JeOS template.
- <tt>--arch</tt>: to build a 64bit appliance.

By default all the appliances created by dister have the <em>devel:language:ruby:extensions</em>
repository. This repository contains all the ruby-related packages.
It's actively maintained by the openSUSE community and by some Novell employee.

The following packages are automatically added to all appliances:
- devel_C_C++ and devel_Ruby: these are needed in order to build native gems.
- rubygem-bundler: this package provides latest version of bundler.
- rubygem-passenger-apache2: this package is required in order to deploy your
  rails application using Apache. All the Apache packages will be automatically
  installed by SUSE Studio because they are dependencies of rubygem-passenger-apache2.

The create task takes care of uploading some custom build and boot scripts.
These scripts take care of initializing your appliance. You can inspect them
using SUSE Studio web interface.

=== Upload your code
In order to add your rails application to your SUSE Studio appliance just execute:
    dister push

This will automatically create (or update) your local bundle and upload it to
SUSE Studio.
Your bundle contains:
- all the gems needed by your rails appliance (this is done using bundler).
- all your code
- apache configuration

=== Build
Building can be triggered using the following command:
    dister build
A nice progress bar will be shown.

TODO: write more documentation.

== License

Dister is released under the MIT license.
